.TH lapply "1" "_RADMIND_BUILD_DATE" "RSUG" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B lapply 
\- modify file system to match apply-able-transcript 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lapply
.RB [ \-CFiInrV ]
[
.RB \-%\ |\ \-q\ |\ \-v
] [
.BI \-c\  checksum
] [
.BI \-e\  event
] [
.BI \-h\  host
] [
.BI \-p\  port
] [
.BI \-P\  ca-pem-directory
] [
.BI \-u\  umask
] [
.BI \-w\  auth-level
] [
.BI \-x\  ca-pem-file
] [
.BI \-y\  cert-pem-file
] [ 
.BI \-z\  private-key-file
] [
.BI \-Z\  compression-level
] {
.I apply-able-transcript
}
.SH DESCRIPTION
lapply reads an apply-able transcript line-by-line, modifying the file
system to match the transcript. Transcript lines are applied in order
unless they are directories marked for deletion.  In such cases,
subsequent transcript lines are first applied until the file system object 
listed is outside of the directory.  If another directory marked for
deletion is encountered, the process is started recursively.
.sp
lapply downloads missing files indicated by a "+" from the radmind server
.I host.
.I file
is applied to the system with the attributes as described in
the transcript line.  File system objects marked with a "-" are removed.
Other transcript lines indicate that a file system
object must be modified or created if missing.  lapply is not able to create
doors or sockets.
.sp
File system objects listed in the transcript and present in the
file system as a different type are automatically removed.
.sp
By default,
.B lapply
will exit with an error if an object's full path is not present on the file
system.  When run with the -C option,
.B lapply
will attempt to create any intermediate directories that are missing. 
Intermediated directories inherit the owner, group and permissions of its
parent directory.
.sp
The radmind tools are unaware of user defined file flags, some of which
may prevent lapply from successfully completing.  Using the -F option,
.B lapply
will remove all user defined flags.
.sp
If
.I apply-able-transcript
is not given,
.B lapply
will use the standard input for reading.
.sp
.B lapply
is also capable of decoding
.B applefiles
stored on the server by
.B lcreate(1),
restoring the files' Mac OS HFS+ metadata to the client machine. (Mac OS X,
HFS+-formatted drives only.)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 19
.BI \-%
percentage done progress output.
.TP 19
.BI \-c\  checksum
enables checksuming.
.TP 19
.BI \-C
create missing intermediate directories.
.TP 19
.BI \-e\  event
the event type to report. This is limited to a single word, containing no
white space. By default this is "lapply".
.TP 19
.BI \-h\  host
specifies the radmind server, by default
.BR _RADMIND_HOST .
.TP 19
.BI \-i
force output linebuffering.
.TP 19
.BI \-I
be case insensitive when comparing paths.
.TP 19
.B \-F
remove all user defined flags for a file if they exist.
.TP 19
.B \-n
no network connection will be made, causing only file system removals and
updates to be applied.  auth-level is implicitly set to 0.
.TP 19
.BI \-p\  port
specifies the port of the radmind server, by default
.BR 6222 .
.TP 19
.BI \-P\  ca-pem-directory
specifies a directory that contains certificates to be used when verifying the server.  Certificates must be in PEM format and the directory must have been
processed with the openssl c_rehash utility. 
.TP 19
.B \-q
suppress all messages.
.TP 19
.B \-r
use random seed file $RANDFILE if that environment variable is set,
$HOME/.rnd otherwise.  See
.BR RAND_load_file (3o).
.TP
.BI \-u\  umask
specifies the umask for temporary files, by default 0077
.TP 19
.B \-V
displays the version number of
.B lapply
and exits. 
.TP 19
.B \-v
displays communication with the radmind server.
.TP 19
.BI \-w\  auth-level
TLS authorization level, by default _RADMIND_AUTHLEVEL.
0 = no TLS, 1 = server verification, 2 = server and client verification.
.TP 19
.BI \-x\  ca-pem-file
Certificate authority's public certificate, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CA.
The default is not used when -P is specified.
.TP 19
.BI \-y\  cert-pem-file
Client's public certificate, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CERT.
.TP 19
.BI \-z\  private-key-file
Client's private key, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CERT.
.TP 19
.BI \-Z\  compression-level
Compress all outbound data.  compression-level can be between 0 and 9:
1 gives best speed, 9 gives best compression, 0 gives no compression at
all (the input data is simply copied a block at a time).
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 5
0
Transcript was applied.
.TP 5
1
An error occurred, system was modified.
.TP 5
2
An error occurred, system was not modified.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsdiff (1),
.BR ktcheck (1),
.BR lcksum (1),
.BR lcreate (1),
.BR lfdiff (1),
.BR lmerge (1),
.BR lsort (1),
.BR twhich (1),
.BR applefile (5),
.BR radmind (8),
.BR chflags (2),
.BR RAND_load_file (3o).
