.TH lcksum "1" "_RADMIND_BUILD_DATE" "RSUG" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B lcksum 
\- verifies a transcript's checksums and file sizes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lcksum 
.RB [ \-%AiIqV ]
[
.BI \-D\  path
] [
.BI \-n
[
.BI \-a
]] [
.BI \-P\  prefix 
]
.BI \-c\ checksum
.I transcript 
.I ...
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lcksum
verifies and updates the checksums and file sizes of the 
transcript 
.I transcript 
line-by-line. If more than one transcript is passed to
.B lcksum,
all transcripts will be verified and updated. 
.B lcksum
compares the checksum and
file size listed in
.I transcript
to that  
of the file in the file system.  Files must be located in
file directory associated with
.IR transcript .
With the \-n option
.B lcksum
verifies but does not modify
.IR transcript .

If there is a difference in either the checksum or file size, the
transcript line is updated using the checksum, file size and
modification time of the actual file. 

In update mode,
.B lcksum
may modify the file sizes and/or checksums in
.IR transcript ,
so the user must have write access to
.IR transcript .
If an error occurs during an update of
.IR transcript ,
lcksum removes the temporary copy of
.IR transcript
that it created and exits with a status of 2.

.B lcksum
also verifies that 
.I transcript
is sorted in depth first order.

With the \-P option,
.B lcksum
will only verify transcript lines with paths starting with
.IR prefix .
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 19
.B \-%
progress output.
.TP 19
.B \-a
continue checking on error.  Requires -n option.
.TP 19
.B \-A
verify AppleSingle headers.
.TP 19
.BI \-c\  checksum
enables checksuming.
.TP 19
.BI \-D\  path
specifies the radmind working directory, by default _RADMIND_PATH
.TP 19
.B \-i
force line buffering.
.TP 19
.BI \-I
be case insensitive when compairing paths.
.TP 19
.B \-n
verify but do not modify
.IR transcript .
.TP 19
.BI \-P\  prefix 
only verify transcript lines that begin with 
.IR prefix .
.TP 19
.B \-q
suppress all messages.
.TP 19
.B \-V
displays the version of 
.BR lcksum
and a list  of supported checksumming algorithms in descending
order of preference and then exits.
.sp
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 5
0
Transcript was verified.
.TP 5
1
Differences were found.
.TP 5
>1
An error occurred.
.sp
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsdiff (1),
.BR ktcheck (1),
.BR lapply (1),
.BR lcreate (1),
.BR lfdiff (1),
.BR lmerge (1),
.BR lsort (1),
.BR twhich (1),
.BR radmind (8).
