.TH lcreate "1" "_RADMIND_BUILD_DATE" "RSUG" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B lcreate
\-  upload transcripts and their corresponding files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lcreate
.RB [ \-FilnNrTV ]
[
.RB \-%\ |\ \-q\ |\ \-v 
] [
.BI \-c\  checksum
] [
.BI \-h\  host
] [
.BI \-p\  port
] [
.BI \-P\  ca-pem-directory
] [
.BI \-t\  stored-name
] [
.BI \-U\  user
] [
.BI \-w\  auth-level
] [
.BI \-x\  ca-pem-file
] [
.BI \-y\  cert-pem-file
] [ 
.BI \-z\  private-key-file
] [
.BI \-Z\  compression-level
]
.I create-able-transcript
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lcreate
reads and uploads a transcript and all corresponding files to the
radmind server.
.sp
.B lcreate
verifies the size listed in the transcript with the actual size of the file 
and stops on any differences.  
If the -F option is given,
.B lcreate
will store the file on the server and give a warning.
.sp
If the -n option is given, no files or transcripts are uploaded.  Instead,
.B lcreate
uses 
.BR access (2)
to verify that all files in the transcript exist in the
filesystem, are readable by the user and have the same size as listed in the
transcript.  If used with the -c option, rather than calling
.BR access (2),
checksums are caluclated to 
verify file contents and user access.
.sp
If the -N option is
given, indicating the transcript specified for upload is negative,
.B lcreate
will upload all corresponding files as zero length.
.sp
If the -T option is
given,
.B lcreate
will upload the transcript only. No corresponding files will be
uploaded. The transcript's stored name is, by default, the last part (
after the slash ) of the given path, or as specified by the name given
with the -t option.
.B lcreate
will print ( to the standard output ) the entire protocol exchange with the
radmind server when the -v option is given.
.sp
By default,
.B lcreate
displays the percentage of bytes processed in a format that can be passed directly to iHook.
.sp
.B lcreate
stores a Macintosh HFS+ file's data and corresponding metadata in a single
.B applefile(5)
on the server.  With the -N option, applefiles are stored with a zero length
resource fork, zero length data fork and a creator type of RDMD.
Systems running Mac OS X on UFS-formatted drives do not need
this special support.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 19
.BI \-%
percentage done progress output.
.TP 19
.BI \-c\  checksum
enables checksuming.
.TP 19
.BI \-F
ignore file size differences.
.TP 19
.BI \-h\  hostname
specifies the radmind server, by default
.BR _RADMIND_HOST .
.TP 19
.BI \-i
force output linebuffering.
.TP 19
.B \-l
Turn on user authentication.  Requires a TLS.
.TP 19
.B \-N
uploads a
.B negative
transcript then uploads all corresponding files as zero length.
.TP 19
.B \-n
Don't upload any files or transcripts.  Verify all
files in the transcript exist in the filesystem and have the size listed
in the transcript.
.TP 19
.BI \-p\  port
specifies a port, by default
.BR 6222 .
.TP 19
.BI \-P\  ca-pem-directory
specifies a directory that contains certificates to be used when verifying the server.  Certificates must be in PEM format and the directory must have been
processed with the openssl c_rehash utility. 
.TP 19
.B \-q
suppress all messages.
.TP 19
.B \-r
use random seed file $RANDFILE if that environment variable is set,
$HOME/.rnd otherwise.  See
.BR RAND_load_file (3o).
.TP 19
.B \-T
uploads the transcript only, and
.B not
the corresponding files.
.TP 19
.BI \-t\  stored-name
specifies the name under which the transcript will be stored when saved
on the server.
.TP 19
.BI \-U\  user
Specifes the user for user authentication.  By default, the login name
returned by
.B getlogin() 
will be used.
.TP 19
.B \-V
displays the version of 
.BR lcreate ,
a list  of supported checksumming algorithms in descending
order of preference and then exits.
.TP 19
.B \-v
increase the verbosity.  -v produces one line for each file stored on the
server.  -vv displays all communication with the radmind server.
.TP 19
.BI \-w\  auth-level
TLS authorization level, by default _RADMIND_AUTHLEVEL.
0 = no TLS, 1 = server verification, 2 = server and client verification.
.TP 19
.BI \-x\  ca-pem-file
Certificate authority's public certificate, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CA.
The default is not used when -P is specified.
.TP 19
.BI \-y\  cert-pem-file
Client's public certificate, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CERT.
.TP 19
.BI \-z\  private-key-file
Client's private key, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CERT.
.TP 19
.BI \-Z\  compression-level
Compress all outbound data.  compression-level can be between 0 and 9:
1 gives best speed, 9 gives best compression, 0 gives no compression at
all (the input data is simply copied a block at a time).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsdiff (1),
.BR ktcheck (1),
.BR lapply (1),
.BR lcksum (1),
.BR lfdiff (1),
.BR lmerge (1),
.BR lsort (1),
.BR twhich (1),
.BR applefile (5),
.BR radmind (8),
.BR RAND_load_file (3o).
