.TH lfdiff "1" "_RADMIND_BUILD_DATE" "RSUG" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B lfdiff 
\- compare local files with copies on radmind server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lfdiff 
[
.B \-IrvV
] [
.BI \-T\  transcript
|
.B \-S
] [
.BI \-h\  host 
] [
.BI \-p\  port
] [
.BI \-u\  umask
] [
.BI \-w\  auth-level
] [
.BI \-x\  ca-pem-file
] [
.BI \-y\  cert-pem-file
] [ 
.BI \-z\  private-key-file
] [
.I supported\ diff\ options
] [
.B \-X
.I unsupported\ diff\ options
]
.I file 
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lfdiff 
retrieves 
.IR file ,
given as an unencoded path,
from the radmind server 
.I host 
and writes it to
/tmp.
.I file
is then compared to the local copy of 
.I file 
using 
.BR diff (1). 
The server copy and the local copy of 
.I file 
are passed to 
.BR diff (1)
as file1
and file2 arguments respectively.  
.I file 
is removed from /tmp on exit.
.B lfdiff
supports all single letter 
.BR diff (1)
options not duplicated in 
.BR lfdiff .
All other
.BR diff (1) 
options are given using the \-X option.
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 19
.B \-I
compare paths case-insensitively
.TP 19
.BI \-h\  host
specifies the radmind server, by default
.BR _RADMIND_HOST . 
.TP 19
.BI \-p\  port 
specifies the port of the radmind server, by default
.BR 6662 .
.TP 19
.B \-r
use random seed file $RANDFILE if that environment variable is set,
$HOME/.rnd otherwise.  See
.BR RAND_load_file (3o).
.TP 19
.B \-S
.I file
is a special file.
.TP 19
.BI \-T\  transcript 
transcript that 
.I file 
is listed in.
.TP
.BI \-u\  umask
specifies the umask for temporary files, by default 0077
.TP 19
.B \-V
displays the version of 
.B lfdiff 
and exits.
.TP 19
.BI \-v
display communication with the radmind server.
.TP 19
.BI \-X\  unsupported\ diff\ options
passes options directly to
.BR diff (1). 
.TP 19
.BI \-w\  auth-level
TLS authorization level, by default _RADMIND_AUTHLEVEL.
0 = no TLS, 1 = server verification, 2 = server and client verification.
.TP 19
.BI \-x\  ca-pem-file
Certificate authority's public certificate, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CA.
.TP 19
.BI \-y\  cert-pem-file
Client's public certificate, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CERT.
.TP 19
.BI \-z\  private-key-file
Client's private key, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CERT.
.sp
.SH EXIT STATUS 
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 5
0
No differences were found.
.TP 5
1
Differences were found.
.TP 5
>1
An error occurred.
.sp
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR diff (1),
.BR fsdiff (1),
.BR ktcheck (1),
.BR lapply (1),
.BR lcksum (1),
.BR lcreate (1),
.BR lmerge (1),
.BR lsort (1),
.BR twhich (1),
.BR radmind (8),
.BR RAND_load_file (3o).
