.TH lmerge "1" "_RADMIND_BUILD_DATE" "RSUG" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B lmerge 
\- lmerge combines multiple transcripts into one.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lmerge
.RB [ \-vV ]
[
.BI \-u\  umask 
]
.IR transcript ...
.I dest 
.br
.B lmerge 
.B \-f
.RB [ \-vV ]
[
.BI \-u\  umask
]
.I transcript1 transcript2 
.br
.B lmerge 
.B \-n
.RB [ \-vV ]
[
.BI \-u\  umask
]
.I transcript1 transcript2 dest 
.br
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lmerge
walks through each transcript in precedence order ( highest precedence
transcript listed first ) to create the appliable transcript
.IR dest .
If multiple transcripts list the same file system object, the transcript
line from the highest precedence transcript is written to
.IR dest .

Blank lines and comments ( lines starting with # ) are not written to
.IR dest .

With the \-f option
.B lmerge
does not create a new transcript and merges the first transcript into the
second transcript.  The second transcript must be writable by the user. 
Only two transcripts are allowed.

If the highest precedence listing of a file system object is preceded with a
\'-', the transcript line will not be written to
.IR dest .

Files listed in
.I dest
are linked from their original location to a file directory created by
.BR lmerge .
This directory is relative to the location of
.IR dest .
Since files are linked, all transcripts ( including
.I dest
) and files must be located on the same volume.

Using the \-f option,
.B lmerge
links all files from the lowest precedence
transcript.  If the transcript line for a file is preceded with a "-"
it is also removed from the file directory associated with the lowest precedence
transcript.

The \-n option indicates that the highest precedence transcript has no
associated file directory.  All files listed in the highest precedence
transcript must be in the file directory associated with the lowest precedence
transcript.  A transcript line in the highest precedence transcript written to
.IR dest ,
but files are linked from the lowest precedence transcript.  Only two
transcripts can be merged with the \-n option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 19
.B \-f
merge
.B transcript1
into
.IR transcript2 .
.TP 19
.B \-n
merge two transcripts linking all files from the lowest precedence
transcript.
.TP 19
.BI \-u\  umask
use
.I umask
as the file mode creation mask, default is users umask.
.TP 19
.B \-V
displays the version of 
.B lmerge 
and exits.
.TP 19
.B \-v
displays merge information to the standard output.
.sp
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 5
0
Merge successful.
.TP 5
>1
An error occurred.
.sp
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsdiff (1),
.BR ktcheck (1),
.BR lapply (1),
.BR lcksum (1),
.BR lcreate (1),
.BR lfdiff (1),
.BR twhich (1),
.BR radmind (8).
