.TH radmind "8" "_RADMIND_BUILD_DATE" "RSUG" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
.B radmind
\- Remote administration daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radmind
[
.B \-dBrUV
] [
.BI \-a\  bind-address
] [
.BI \-b\  backlog
] [
.BI \-D\  path
] [
.BI \-F\  syslog-facility
] [
.BI \-L\  syslog-level
] [
.BI \-m\  max-connections 
] [
.BI \-P\  ca-directory
] [
.BI \-p\  port
] [
.BI \-u\  umask 
] [
.BI \-w\  auth-level
] [
.BI \-x\  ca-pem-file
] [
.BI \-y\  cert-pem-file
] [ 
.BI \-z\  private-key-file
] [
.BI \-Z\  max-compression-level
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Radmind uses the radmind access protocol to communicate with radmind
clients.
.sp
On startup, radmind changes directory to _RADMIND_PATH, creates
command, file, special, tmp, tmp/file, tmp/transcript and
transcript ( with permissions 0750 ) if they do not
exist, and begins listening on the radmind port ( by default 6222 ) for
incoming connections.
With the
-D option, radmind will use
.I path
as its working directory.
Radmind forks a child for each connection.
.sp
The file config contains a list of known clients that
can connect to radmind, one per line.  Each line contains the
CN, domain name or IP address of the client and the client's
command file.  The server checks each line of the config file, first
checking to see if the connecting client's CN, domain name, and 
finally IP address match in that order.  CNs and
domain names are case insensitive.  If the optional third field begins
with a '#', it is ignored and treated as an in-line comment.
.sp
Lines that are blank or begin with '#' are ignored. There are several
supported wildcard patterns similar to shell globbing. '*'
will match any string.  A number range can be given 
by "<\c
.IR min -\c
.IR max >"
where 
.I min
is the lower bound and
.I max
is the upper bound. '?' matches any single character. The square bracket
character list, "[abcd]",
will match any single character within the brackets. Comma-separated
values contained in curly braces, "{riverrun,past,Eve}"
will match the first whole string found. '\\'
can be used to escape any character. 
.sp
A client is only given access to command files and transcripts
listed in their base command file as determined by the config
file.
.sp
_RADMIND_PATH/config can include other config files using the keyword
"@include", which can be used in two ways. The first is a simple include
of another file. If the path does not begin with a slash (/), the path is
interpreted as being relative to _RADMIND_PATH. For example:
.sp
.br
	@include configs/ldap-servers.config
.br
.sp
which would cause every connecting client to be checked against the contents
of _RADMIND_PATH/configs/ldap-servers.config. The @include keyword can also
take an optional third argument, a wildcard pattern limiting which clients
will read the included config file. For example:
.sp
.br
	@include configs/kerberos-kdcs.config *.kerberos.example.edu
.br
.sp
would cause only clients with FQDNs matching '*.kerberos.example.edu' to
read the included file. The wildcard is checked, in order, against the
client's certificate CN (if the client presents one), the client's
fully-qualified domain name, and the client's IP address.
.SH DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
.TP 19
.B command
Stores command files.
.TP 19
.B transcripts 
Stores transcripts.
.TP 19
.B file
All files served from the radmind server are stored in the
.B file
directory.
All files for a given transcript are stored in
.BI file/ <transcript>
where
.I <transcript>
is the name of the transcript.  A file is stored in
.BI file/ <transcript>\c
.RI / <path>
where
.I <path>
is the file's path as listed in the transcript.
.TP 19
.B special
All special files are stored in
.BR special .
The special files for a given host are stored in
.BI special/ <key>
where 
.I <key>
is the client's CN, fully qualified domain name or IP address as matched
in the config file.  Individual special files are stored in
.BI special/ <host>\c
.RI / <path>
where
.I <path>
is the path of the special file as listed in the client's
command file.
.TP 19
.B tmp/file
All files stored on the server using the STOR command are saved in
.BR tmp/file .
Files for a given transcript are stored in
.BI tmp/transcript/ <transcript>
.BI / <path>
where
.I <transcript> is the name of the transcript and
.I <path> is the file's path
as given in the STOR command.
.TP 19
.B tmp/transcript
All transcripts stored on the server using the STOR command are saved in
.BR tmp/transcript .
.SH RADMIND ACCESS PROTOCOL
Radmind currently supports the following Radmind Access Protocol ( RAP )
requests:
.TP 10
QUIT
terminate session
.TP 10
NOOP
do nothing
.TP 10
HELP
display helpful message
.TP 10
STAT
stat a transcript, command or special file.  When statting a command file or
transcript, the mode, UID and GID default to 0444, 0, and 0 respectively.  If
no command file is specified, the server returns information on the base
command file as indicated in the config file.
.sp
Status of a special file is determined by a single transcript line listed
in a file named 
special/<special-file-path>.T , where <special-file-path> is the full
path to the special file.  If that does not exist, a listing for the file 
in the
.B transcript/special.T
transcript in the transcript directory will be used.
If neither of those exist, the defaults are returned.
.TP 10
RETR
retrieve a file, transcript command or special file.  If 
no command file is specified, the server returns the base
command file as indicated in the config file.
.TP 10
STOR
store a file or transcript.  If user authentication is
enabled,
this command is only valid after the client sends a successful LOGI.
.TP 10
STAR
Start TLS.  If the server is run with an authorization level of 2, this
command must be given before a client can send a STAT, RETR, or STOR.
.TP 10
LOGI
Login user.  This command is only valid after TLS has been
started. 
.TP 10
COMP
start compression
.TP 10
REPO
report a client status message. The daemon logs the message in the following format:
.sp
.RS 
report HOSTNAME IP CN - EVENT MESSAGE...
.sp
First the string "report", followed by the client's hostname and
IP address.  If the client authenticates to the server with a certificate,
its common name will be listed next.  If the client does not present a
certificate, a '-' will be listed.
Next, a '-' is printed as a placeholder for a future
field.  Finally, the event and message are logged as reported by the client.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 19
.BI \-a\  bind-address
specifies the address on which the server should listen, e.g.
127.0.0.1.  By default the server listens on all available interfaces
(wildcard address).
.TP 19
.B \-B
register daemon as a Bonjour service. Replaces deprecated
.BR \-R
option.
.TP 19
.BI \-b\  backlog
Defines the maximum queue of pending connections to
.BR listen (2),
by default five.
.TP 19
.BI \-D\  path
specifies the radmind working directory, by default _RADMIND_PATH
.TP 19
.B \-d
debug mode. Does not disassociate from controlling tty.
.TP 19
.BI \-F\  syslog-facility
specifies to which syslog facility to log messages.
.TP 19
.B \-f
run in foreground
.TP 19
.BI \-L\  syslog-level
specifies at which syslog level to log messages.
.TP 19
.BI \-m\  max-connections 
specifies the maximum number of simultaneous connections, by
default _RADMIND_MAXCONNECTIONS.
Value must be greater than or equal to 0 with 0 indicating no limit.
.TP 19
.BI \-p\  port 
specifies the port of the radmind server, by default
.BR 6222 .
.TP 19
.BI \-P\  ca-directory
specifies a directory that contains certificates to be used when verifying a client.  Certificates must be in PEM format and the directory must have been
processed with the openssl c_rehash utility.
.TP 19
.B \-r
use random seed file $RANDFILE if that environment variable is set,
$HOME/.rnd otherwise.  See
.BR RAND_load_file (3o).
.TP 19
.BI \-u\  umask
specifies the umask the server uses to write files to the disk, defaulting
to the user's umask.
.TP 19
.B \-U
Turn on PAM user authentication.  Requires auth-level > 0.
.B radmind
uses the PAM service name radmind.
.TP 19
.B \-V
displays the version of 
.B  radmind
and exits.
.TP 19
.BI \-w\  auth-level
TLS authorization level, by default _RADMIND_AUTHLEVEL.
0 = no TLS, 1 = server verification, 2 = server and client verification.
.TP 19
.BI \-x\  ca-pem-file
Certificate authority's public certificate, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CA.
The default is not used when -P is specified.
.TP 19
.BI \-y\  cert-pem-file
Server's public certificate, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CERT.
.TP 19
.BI \-z\  private-key-file
Server's private key, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CERT.
.TP 19
.BI \-Z\  max-compression-level
Offer compression to clients.  If client requests compression, the server will
compress all outbound data using using the lower value of
max_compression_level or compression level set by client.
max-compression-level can be between 0 and 9:
1 gives best speed, 9 gives best compression, 0 gives no compression at
all (the input data is simply copied a block at a time).
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example of _RADMIND_PATH/config defines four known clients,
each using one of three different command files.  Also, any client that ends
with ".lab.umich.edu" will get lab.K as its config file and clients
in the IP range 212.12.243.1 through 212.12.243.50 will get solaris8.K as their 
config file.  Note that numeric ranges ignore leading zeros.  Therefore the
last line will match clients with hostnames of mac1.umich.edu, mac01.umich.edu,
mac001.umich,edu, etc.
.sp
.RS
.nf
#
# Client               command file	optional-comment
#
amber.umich.edu        apple.K		# mail server
josh.umich.edu         apple.K
ben.umich.edu          apple-test.K
oreo.umich.edu         solaris8.K
*.lab.umich.edu        lab.K
212.12.243.<1-50>      solaris8.K
mac<1-15>.umich.edu    apple.K
.fi
.RE
.LP
.SH FILES
_RADMIND_PATH/config
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsdiff (1),
.BR ktcheck (1),
.BR lapply (1),
.BR lcreate (1),
.BR lcksum (1),
.BR lfdiff (1),
.BR lmerge (1),
.BR lsort (1),
.BR repo (1),
.BR twhich (1),
.BR pam.conf (4),
.BR RAND_load_file (3o).
.sp
Also see the three
.B Linux-PAM
Guides, for
.B System
.BR administrators ,
.B module
.BR developers ,
and
.B application
.BR developers .
