.TH rash "1" "_RADMIND_BUILD_DATE" "RSUG" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B rash 
\- Radmind Assistant
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ra.sh
[
.B -cIltV
] [
.B -%
|
.B -q
] [
.B \-D
.I workingdir
] [
.B \-h
.I server
] [
.B \-p
.I port
] [
.B \-r
.I path
] [
.B \-U
.I user
] [
.B \-w
.I authlevel
] {
.B trip
|
.B update
|
.B create
|
.B auto
|
.B force
|
.B checkout
|
.B checkin
} 
.sp 
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.B rash 
is a command line application for running the Radmind
tool set.  It can be used to run the entire radmind process including
updating a client, running a tripwire and creating loadsets.  On
machines with multiple administrators, 
.B rash 
can be used to limit
conflicts from multiple administrators simultaneously using the tool.

.B rash 
is run with a required option telling it what process to run:
update, auto, force, create, trip, checkout or checkin.

A machine can be updated by using either the update, auto or force
option.  update will prompt the user at each step in the process.  auto
will update the machine without any input, looping when possible to
handle temporary problems such as networking issues or a busy server. 
auto is suitable to be run as an automated process.  force updates
a machine without looping or prompting for input and is handy for quick,
manual updates.

create is used to store a loadset on the radmind server in an
interactive fashion.  Before creating a transcript, 
.B rash 
first checks to
see if the command file and transcripts are correct and prompts the user
to update them if needed.  The user can also edit the transcript before
it is stored on the server.

trip is used to run a tripwire on the system.  If the command file and
transcripts are correct, a full tripwire is run with checksums.  Any
differences are printed to the screen in a format suitable for e-mailed
machine reporting.

checkout is used to prevent other users from concurrently running 
.BR rash . 
It is helpful when an administrator is installing new software or
configuring a client and does not want their work removed.  Only the
user who checked out a machine can run 
.B rash 
unless a new checkout is
forced from an interactive 
.B rash 
session.  An e-mail is sent to the
previous users when a checkout is overridden.  As trip does not modify
the system, it can be run at any time, regardless of who has checked out
the machine.  checkin is used to release a machine.  Only the user who
checked out a machine may check it back in.

checkin and checkout both use $USER to determine who is performing
the command.  $USER can be overridden using the -U option.

The -c option can be used to turn on checksums for fsdiff.  The only
supported checksum is SHA1.

.B rash 
supports running arbitrary scripts before and after lapply. 
Preapply scripts located in PREAPPLY are run before lapply, and
postapply scripts located in POSTAPPLY are run after.  The first
argument passed to each script is the full path to apply-able
transcript.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 19
.B \-%
Tell 
.BR fsdiff (1)
,
.BR lapply (1)
, and
.BR lcreate (1)
to use percentage done progress output.
.TP 19
.B \-c
use sha1 checksums.
.TP 19
.BI \-D\  workingdir
change to
.I workingdir
before running. Default is "/".
.TP 19
.BI \-h\  hostname
specifies the radmind server, by default
.BR _RADMIND_HOST .
.TP 19
.B \-I
Tell 
.BR fsdiff (1)
,
.BR ktcheck (1)
, and
.BR lapply (1)
to use case-insensitive matching.
.TP 19
.B \-l
Prompt for remote user name.  The -U option disables this prompt.
.TP 19
.BI \-p\  port
Specifies the port to connect to the server on, by default 6222.
.TP 19
.B \-q
Tell
.BR lapply (1)
and
.BR lcreate (1)
to operate quietly.
.TP 19
.BI \-r\  path
specifies root path from which fsdiff will start its scan of the
filesystem
.TP 19
.B \-t
use tempfiles
.TP 19
.BI \-U\  user
specifies the user.  By default, $USER 
will be used.
.TP 19
.B \-V
displays the version of 
.B rash
and exits.
.TP 19
.BI \-w\  auth-level
TLS authorization level, by default _RADMIND_AUTHLEVEL.
0 = no TLS, 1 = server verification, 2 = server and client verification.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 5
0
successful.
.TP 5
>1
An error occurred.
.sp
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsdiff (1),
.BR ktcheck (1),
.BR lapply (1),
.BR lcksum (1),
.BR lcreate (1),
.BR lfdiff (1),
.BR lmerge (1),
.BR lsort (1),
.BR twhich (1),
.BR radmind (8).
