.TH repo "1" "_RADMIND_BUILD_DATE" "RSUG" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B repo 
\- report events to a radmind server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B repo
.BI \-e\ event
[
.RI \-Vv
] [
.BI \-h\  host
] [
.BI \-p\  port
] [
.BI \-w\  auth-level
] [
.BI \-x\  ca-pem-file
] [
.BI \-y\  cert-pem-file
] [
.BI \-z\  private-key-file
] [
.BI \-Z\  compression-level
] [
.I message ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B repo
reports status messages to the radmind server. The administrator defines
the
.I event
type with the -e option. The
.I message
is read from the command line or from standard input. The
.I event
and the
.I message
are logged by the server if
.B repo
succeeds.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 19
.BI \-e\  event
the event type to report. This is limited to a single word, containing no
white space.
.TP 19
.BI \-h\  host
specifies the radmind server, by default
.BR _RADMIND_HOST .
.TP 19
.BI \-p\  port
specifies a port, by default
.B 6222 .
.TP 19
.BI \-P\  ca-pem-directory
specifies a directory that contains certificates to be used when verifying the server.  Certificates must be in PEM format and the directory must have been
processed with the openssl c_rehash utility. 
.TP 19
.B \-V
displays the version of
.BR repo ,
and exits.
.TP 19
.B \-v
displays communication with the radmind server.
.TP 19
.BI \-w\  auth-level
TLS authorization level, by default _RADMIND_AUTHLEVEL.
0 = no TLS, 1 = server verification, 2 = server and client verification.
.TP 19
.BI \-x\  ca-pem-file
Certificate authority's public certificate, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CA.
The default is not used when -P is specified.
.TP 19
.BI \-y\  cert-pem-file
Client's public certificate, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CERT.
.TP 19
.BI \-z\  private-key-file
Client's private key, by default _RADMIND_TLS_CERT.
.TP 19
.BI \-Z\  compression-level
Compress all outbound data.  compression-level can be between 0 and 9:
1 gives best speed, 9 gives best compression, 0 gives no compression at
all (the input data is simply copied a block at a time).
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 5
0
No errors.
.TP 5
>0
An error occurred.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR radmind (8).
