.TH twhich "1" "_RADMIND_BUILD_DATE" "RSUG" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B twhich 
\- locates a file listing in transcripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B twhich 
[
.RI \-aV
] [
.BI \-K\  command
]
.I file 
.br
.B twhich 
.B \-s
.BI \-K\  command
[
.RI \-aV
] 
.I file
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B twhich 
searches each transcript listed in the command file ( the default name is
.B command.K )
for
.IR file .
Transcripts are searched in precedence order.
The first
transcript listed in the command file has the lowest precedence, the
next higher, and the last has the highest.  If any special files are
listed, the
.B special.T
transcript will have the absolute highest precedence.
.I file
must be the full, encoded path (See
.BR fsdiff (1)),
as listed in the transcript. 

If
.I file
is found,
.B twhich
prints a message to the standard output indicating the transcript, line
number and matching line, and then exits.  With the -a option,
.B twhich
will continue to search all transcripts listed in the command file for
.IR file .

The -s option is used to run
.B twhich
on a radmind server.  When run on a server, the command file to search
must be given with the -K option.  All listed transcripts
must be in the respective radmind server transcript directory.

.sp
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 19
.B \-a
list all transcripts that contain
.IR file .
.TP 19
.BI \-K\  command
specifies a command
file, by default
.BR _RADMIND_COMMANDFILE 
.TP 19
.B \-s
indicates that
.B twhich
is running on a radmind server.
.TP 19
.B \-V
displays the version number of
.BR twhich
and exits.
.sp
.SH FILES
.TP 19
.B _RADMIND_COMMANDFILE
name of the default command file.
.TP 19
.B special.T 
name of the special transcript.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 5
0
File was found. 
.TP 5
1
File was not found.
.TP 5
>1
An error occurred.
.sp
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsdiff (1),
.BR ktcheck (1),
.BR lapply (1),
.BR lcksum (1),
.BR lcreate (1),
.BR lfdiff (1),
.BR lmerge (1),
.BR radmind (8).
