{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf420
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww8640\viewh9000\viewkind0
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 About radmind
\f1\b0 \
Radmind is a set of tools that can be used to maintain systems and act as a tripwire for security purposes.\
\

\f0\b Change Log
\f1\b0 \
To see what has been changed in the version see the release notes on the Radmind SourceForge site https://sourceforge.net/projects/radmind/ .\
\

\f0\b Requirements\

\f1\b0 This package require a Macintosh running Mac OS X 10.3 or later. To run radmind on prior versions of Mac OS X, you must download and build the source code.\
\

\f0\b Installing Radmind
\f1\b0 \
This package installs software into standard file locations.  If you have moved /usr/local/bin, /usr/local/sbin, /usr/local/man or /private/var we recommend that you install from the source code rather than using this installer.\
\
You will need administrator privileges to install radmind. This installer installs all components of the radmind tools. To install the server startup item, you will need to run the Radmind Assistant, choose Run Setup Steps from the Session menu, and choose "I'm new, and I'd like to set up a radmind server" in the window.\
\

\f0\b Known Issues
\f1\b0 \
On OpenDarwin based systems, the message "hfs_bwrite: called with lock bit set" is logged when you are doing a high volume of writes to a volume.\
\

\f0\b Reporting Bugs\

\f1\b0 Before submitting a bug report, check the Radmind bug tracker at https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=141444&atid=749492 to see if it has already been reported.  If not, you can submit a detailed report. Include the version of the tools, the version of the OS, the version of the Radmind Assistant, any error messages or crashlogs created by the tools, and a list of the steps it takes to cause the bug.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 For more information\

\f1\b0 For help using any of the radmind tools, see their man page. There is also an active archived mailing list. For more details, see the radmind website's Contact page: http://radmind.org/contact.html\
\
Visit the radmind web site at http://radmind.org\
\
Copyright (c) 2003, 2007 Regents of The University of Michigan\
All Rights Reserved}